# C-Grasp Dataset Documentation

This document details the USGS Coast Grain Size Portal ([C-Grasp](https://zenodo.org/record/5874231#.YeePiVuIbRY)), the data sources it is comprised of, the pitfalls of each source, any alterations/decisions that may have been enacted in the compilation processes, and potential use cases of the dataset.


### About the dataset:

The overall preliminary dataset is composed from 6 secondary databases and gathered primary sources, totaling over 210 total primary sources for grainsize measurements. The samples from these sources have been ranked and divided by their relevancy to this project which is to find spatially and temporally explicit surficial sediment grainsize data on the Eastern Continental United States. This data is gathered as a part of the [National Oceaographic Partnership Programm (NOPP) Hurricane Coastal Impacts (NHCI) project](https://nopphurricane.sofarocean.com/).






---

## Dataset Fields:

The dataset fields were compiled and/or generated by the C-Grasp team based on immediate necessity and use-value. Below is a description of each dataset field.

#### Sample_ID:

This unique ID is any unique ID provided from the source dataset. 


#### Sample_Type_Code:

This sample ranking, ranked by field is as follows: 
   * (1): A surficial sediment sample that is explicitly stated as coming from  on-shore, intertidal ,or supertidal either from the source project's documentation of location type or gathering method 
   * (2): An offshore surficial sediment sample gathered by a grab device
   * (3): A non-surficial sample (e.g. core) 
   * (N/A or Blank): not stated or known

#### Project:

Many databases compiled for this dataset were composed of different data sources. In this case, this field is populated by the specific project the relevant sample was gathered in

#### dataset:

The dataset that the sample was gathered from. For more specifics on each dataset, see below.

#### Date:

Date that the sample was gathered (not analyzed) standardized to yyyy-mm-dd format.

#### Location_Type:

If populated by "Beach?Y" the sample was specified to be gathered onshore through metadata or note information. If other, this field was populated by in the original dataset nomenclature of where on the beach a sample was gathered (e.g. berm, dune, intertidal, etc.)

#### Latitude & Longitude

The coordinates of a sample projected to EPSG:4326. Cases in which coordinates had to be reprojected can be found in the source data break-down below


#### Contact:

This is the the most relevant contact information that was able to be found for each sample, ranging in specificity from providing source agency to gatherer of the sample.

#### num_orig_dists:

This is the amount of cumulative distribution values (e.g. d10,d50,d90) that were provided with the sample. Other ones provided were extrapolated by the C-Grasp team.


#### Measured_Distributions

These are the distributions that were provided (accounted for in num_orig_distributions). All other provided cumulative distribution values were extrapolated by the C-Grasp team.


#### Grainsize

This field is populated when a sample grainsize was provided with a measurement, but with no further data specifying measurement. This most frequently occured with the US Seabed dataset in which the metadata says that grainsize is a measurement of "median or mean". Grainsize is in mm units.

#### Mean

Mean calculated using the Folk and Ward (1957) graphical moments method (Also see Blott & Pye, 2001). In mm units.

#### Median

This is provided when a sample's median grainsize was provided but differed from the interpolated d50 value.

#### Wentworth

Sediment grainsize classification from Wentworth, 1922.


 
#### Kurtosis

Kurtosis calculated using the Folk and Ward (1957) graphical moments method (Also see Blott & Pye, 2001). In mm units.


#### Kurotis_Class

Kurtosis classification from Folk and Ward (1957) (Also see Blott & Pye, 2001).


#### Skewness

Skewness calculated using the Folk and Ward (1957) graphical moments method (Also see Blott & Pye, 2001). In mm units.


#### Skewness_Class

Skewness classification from Folk and Ward (1957) (Also see Blott & Pye, 2001).


#### Std
Sample standard deviation calculated using the Folk and Ward (1957) graphical moments method.

#### Sorting
Sorting classificationusing the Folk and Ward (1957) graphical moments method (Also see Blott & Pye, 2001). 

#### d[5-95]

These fields are populated by their relevant cumulative distribution percentile value. The method in which this is done can be found in the AnalysisNotebooks interpolation notebook tools, further expanded upon for each dataset in the source data breakdown below. These values are in mm units.

#### Notes:

These notes consist of all other data provided in the source datasets that did not seem immediately useful for the purposes of this dataset, but may be helpful for other endeavors. This data consists of information such as sampling methods, sediment petrography, or whether shells/biological material were present within the sample. For more information, see the data breakdown below.
